# 05/17/21 - CSE 110 Group 3 Meeting

## Meeting Information

*Type of Meeting*: Sprint 1 Review   
*Time/Place*: Zoom 4-4:45   

*Attendance*:
- [X] Amy Nguyen
- [X] Brian Chen
- [X] Aksharan Saravanan
- [X] Aman Aggarwal
- [X] Andrew Slater
- [X] Brian Seo
- [X] Eric Chen
- [X] Shirley Qi
- [X] Yunhao Du
- [ ] Matei-Alexandru Gardus

## Agenda
Discuss team status video and CI-CD pipeline assignment
Review Sprint 1 work

### Assignments
- Andrew to trim Matei's pipeline video to under 2 min to submit as part of CI-CD pipeline video
- Use the same video in our team status video

### General Design discussion
- How do we want to display tracking data on monthly basis? Discussion to be done by designers
- Discussion about removing the form to add new bullets in daily log
  - Create a modal right under the daily log page instead of creating a seperate form for it

### Team reviews
Team Journal Creation
Positives: Good pages breakdown and task delegation
Challenges: Blocked on designs to get started with coding

Team Daily Log
Positives: Got basic functionalities setup
Challenges: Storing the data
Demo: [Included in Status Video](../videos/statusvideo1.md)

### Technical Decisions
- Decided to store data like themes and journal colors in local storage
- Decided to store data like daily tasks, etc. using indexedDB

### Next sprint plans
- Design more pages and assign each page to small teams
- Move Matei to daily log development for help with indexedDB
