# Getting started with development

To get started with our project, please follow the following basic steps to make your onboarding smoother.

### Clone our repo
Once you are added into our github organization, clone the github repo [here](https://github.com/cse110-sp21-group3/cse110-sp21-group3.git) 
OR run 
```
git clone https://github.com/cse110-sp21-group3/cse110-sp21-group3.git
```
on the command line in the directory you wish.

### Install package dependencies
To install the package dependencies please use the command
```
npm ci
```

### Familiarise yourself with our repo

Our repo is organised into the following directories:

1. admin/ -> Contains administrative documents like meeting notes, team branding documents, and team details
2. specs/ -> Contains application specification documents like architecture decision records, low to high fidelity diagrams, user centered development documents
3. source/ -> Contains the source code of the application.

A more comprehensive outline is located in the [root Readme](../README.md)

#### Dig into the code base
Our source code is placed in the `source` directory. It is organised into directories for components and different pages, as follows:
   1. `components/`: Contains components shared accross different pages
   2. Each page has its own directory, for example files for daily log page is stored in `home-dailylogs/`
   3. `colorThemes.js`: Contains preset color combinations
   4. `storageKeys.js`: Contains various keys and functions to standardize access to `localStorage`


### Ensure these steps before merging into main
Before merging your changes into the main branch, please follow the following steps to ensure smooth CI-CD flow
1. Lint your code to make sure you follow standard coding styles. To ensure consistent coding style accross the repo, we follow Airbnb style guide. If the guidelines are not met, PR won't be able to merge. To fix minute errors automatically, use the following command
```
npm run lint:fix
```
2. Run tests to ensure you don't break any existing functioning. This step is performed by in the pipeline but can be run locally using 
```
npm test
```
3. Perform end to end tests on our application to ensure you didn't break the final product. You can access the state of the app on each PR using the deploy preview generated by netflify. This step is crucial becuase as of yet this is not automated by the pipeline. Follow the end to end testing guide linked [here](E2Etests/E2Eguide.md)
4. Make sure to make a PR and get at least 1 (if not 2) approval(s) before merging to main (and make sure the current branch is updated with main's latest changes).

### Deployment
The deployment of this project is handled through GitHub Actions. Upon creation of a Pull Request, Netlify will generate a deploy preview, which can be accessed at https://deploy-preview-XX--theme-bujo.netlify.app/, where XX is the PR #. Upon succeful merging into main, the latest version of the app will be deployed to Netlify at https://theme-bujo.netlify.app/.


### Access Documentation
[Page Level Documentation](https://github.com/cse110-sp21-group3/cse110-sp21-group3/tree/main/docs/pages)   
[Testing Documentation](https://github.com/cse110-sp21-group3/cse110-sp21-group3/tree/main/__tests__)   
[JsDocs Documentation](https://cse110-sp21-group3.github.io/cse110-sp21-group3/)       
[Internal Documentation](https://github.com/cse110-sp21-group3/cse110-sp21-group3/tree/main/specs/adrs)   
